API Reference
=============

Below is the class and function reference for the MMDB class. Please note that the package is under active development, and some features may not be stable yet.

        
MMDB
------------------

The MMDB class is a tool for interacting with a data repository. It provides functions for retrieving dataset information, downloading datasets, and listing datasets based on specific criteria.

.. code-block:: python

    # Class Definition
    MMDB(storage_path=None)

- **storage_path**: The path for storing the downloaded data.

Methods
*******

.. code-block:: python

    # Method
    mmdb.list_species() -> None

- Lists all available species.

.. code-block:: python

    # Method
    mmdb.list_tissue() -> None

- Lists all available tissue types.

.. code-block:: python

    # Method
    mmdb.list_disease() -> None

- Lists all available diseases.

.. code-block:: python

    # Method
    mmdb.list_technology_type() -> None

- Lists all available technology types.

.. code-block:: python

    # Method
    mmdb.list_technology() -> None

- Lists all available technologies.

.. code-block:: python

    # Method
    mmdb.list_dataset(species=None, tissue=None, disease=None, technology_type=None) -> pandas.DataFrame

- **species**: Filters datasets by species.
- **tissue**: Filters datasets by tissue type.
- **disease**: Filters datasets by disease.
- **technology_type**: Filters datasets by technology type.
- Returns a DataFrame containing the filtered datasets.

.. code-block:: python

    # Method
    mmdb.load_dataset(dataset_id) -> dict

- **dataset_id**: The unique identifier of the dataset.
- Downloads and loads the dataset identified by the given dataset ID.
- Returns a dictionary where keys are data types and values are the corresponding data.

Example
*******

.. code-block:: python

    from mmdb import MMDB
    
    # Create an instance of MMDB
    mmdb = MMDB(storage_path="path/to/storage")

    # List available species
    mmdb.list_species()

    # Retrieve dataset information
    datasets = mmdb.list_dataset(species="Homo sapiens")

    # Load a specific dataset
    dataset = mmdb.load_dataset("[Dataset_ID]")